Hey everyone and thanks for dropping
back into the heavy metal verse.
Today we're going to talk about gold and
we're going to be discussing the path
for the rest of the year. If you guys
like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on ITC Premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
And as I've said before, make sure you
check out the first ITC conference,
Investing Through the Cycles. We're
going to have it uh November 20th
through the 22nd in Miami, Florida. Hope
to see you guys there. Let's go ahead
and jump in. So, gold is trading right
around $4,000. And we've talked a little
bit about kind of what to expect in the
midterm year. If you're new to the
channel, one of the things that we said
previously was look for gold to have a
large correction in 2026. Um, and for it
to find a low probably sometime between,
you know, June, July, going all the way
out till October is is when it as late
as it could theoretically happen before
it starts to find a bounce back up. Now,
one of the reasons I say that is is
mostly due to seasonality. If you look
at the year-to- date ROI of gold in 2026
and you compare it to say 2022
or 2018, you'll see that gold in 2026 as
measured from the yearly open is
basically the same as it was at this
point in 2022 and in 2018. And so
it's still tracking, right? It's still
tracking what it normally does. Now the
lowest as measured from the yearly open
that gold got in 2018 and 2022 was
around you know 10 11% down from the
yearly open gold this you know in in
2026 has gone about 7 8% down. So you
could argue that while gold might go a
little bit lower
it probably wouldn't go that much lower
this year. Now, of course, a
counterpoint would be that it went a lot
higher, so maybe it it could go a little
bit lower. But when I think about this
stuff, I think about like when is the
most likely time for gold to bottom. You
know, could it bottom soon? Uh could it
take a little bit longer? One of the
things to note for gold is that recently
it actually had a death cross. But a lot
of times when you have death crosses,
you have rallies in the short term. And
you can actually see we had one. If you
look at at when gold crossed the 50-day
and the 200 day, you can see you had a
little bit of rally on the other side of
it. But and if you go back to 2022,
you can see kind of the same thing,
right? You had a death cross. I guess it
sort of dumped right initially, but you
had sort of this rally back up to the uh
to the 50-day moving average. We haven't
even had that. We haven't been to the
50-day moving average since May. So,
it's been a few months. But the point
that I'm trying to make is that, you
know, if you look at the year-to- date
ROI of gold in 2026 and you compare it
to 2022 or 2018, you can see that back
then it took until like September,
October for gold to bottom.
But here's the reason why I don't want
to overpromise that. Because while in
2018 and 2022, gold dutton bottom for a
few more months, it didn't go that much
lower. But the bigger point is if you
actually look at the average of all of
these midterm years going back to the
late 1960s, early 1970s,
and let's go ahead and hide 2018 and
2022. On average, gold bottoms in early
July of midterm years on average. Even
though in 2022 and 2018
you can see that it it took a little bit
longer. Now the reason why is because
you probably had some pretty big draw
downs at some point in that in sort of
that part of the midterm year. Um you
can see in 2014 uh gold didn't bottom
until November of that midterm year. You
look at 2010 uh you can see it was
actually had a relatively good year but
it did find some weakness into late July
before heading higher. If you look at
2006, again, a big drop into like late
June, early July, uh, didn't go any
lower than where it was in June back
then. And you look at 2002, you can see
it also found a low in sort of like late
July. It was a higher low. But again,
the point of this timebased analysis is
not to say it's a lower low or it's a
higher low. It's just like when would it
find a low? Um, and then you could also,
of course, look at like 1998 and see
that it it found a low in in late
August. So there's no way to know
exactly when, but my guess my guess is
that gold would likely find a low
between say July and October.
And one thing I want to be clear though
is that you might say, well, gold has
been struggling whereas the stock market
has been doing okay recently. And that's
true, right? Like that is absolutely
true. So if you if you look at the
valuation of the S&P against gold,
you'll see that it S&P's rallied against
gold recently. Um
but the point is we have seen these
rallies before even after breakdowns. If
you look at at you know prior eras, we
had the S&P rallied at the same era
level of gold against in back in 1973.
But the point is is when you look at the
overall S&P bull run, right? When you
look at it and you look at at prior
drops back in 2008, we had this massive
drop, okay? And going into 2009. Now,
I'm not saying we're going to get that.
But the point is is when we had that,
gold was a lot weaker initially, but it
came out of it a lot stronger and got to
all-time highs a lot quicker. So, if you
look at this, the S&P topped in October
of 2007. Now, this is what's crazy about
this. If you overlay gold onto this
chart, what you'll see is that gold
actually found a low in October 2008,
whereas the S&P didn't find a low until
about half a year later. Now, what's
crazy is that gold was basically back at
all-time highs by 2009.
only a year and a half or so after it
topped. For the stock market, it took
from ' 07 all the way out until 2013.
So, it took a lot longer. Now, we
already, you might say, "This doesn't
really make sense to compare." I agree.
It's not 2008, but we already got a
glimpse of this is the point I'm trying
to make.
If you look at the S&P 500 and you think
about kind of the last big crisis we had
where the market was really starting to
worry, it was during the tariffs. the
tariff tantrum back in early 2025. Now,
what's remarkable is if you overlay gold
onto that that scare, you'll see that
gold
barely dropped, right? Like it barely
dropped and it recovered relatively
quickly. So, the point is is, you know,
yes, gold has had a pullback. We said
we're likely going to have this pullback
in 2026, but ultimately I think it's
going to set up for the continuation for
a move back up starting as we get later
into 2026, but especially going into
2027.
That's my guess as to how this plays
out. Now, I could be wrong, but and you
might say, well, you know, gold's
already dropped a ton, so you know, is
it is it is it worth considering that
that view might be wrong? And maybe it
is. But when you look at at the bull
market support band for gold and now
remember the the bull market support
band I use for gold is different than
the ones that I use for Bitcoin. For
gold I use the 20month simple moving
average and the 21month exponential
moving average EMA. And if you look at
the bull market that we had in the
2000s, you can see that gold would find
support at this bull market support bin
for the most part. Sometimes it would
not quite tag it, which is why I don't
generally recommend like waiting for it
to tag. But you can see there was one
fake out below it when we got the
recession. But ultimately, gold
recovered out of that recession much
faster than stocks and continued to go
higher into the end of the decade and
early into the next decade. Now, if you
look at the massive bull market we had
in the 1970s going into, you know, the
early 1980s, you'll see it was also
finding support kind of near that
bullmark support band. And at one point,
we did break down below it right as we
had that recession, but it recovered. It
went on to new all-time highs and it
drastically outperformed the S&P 500.
Now, the point I've tried to make is
that in both of these massive bull
markets for gold, they were interrupted
by a recession in the United States. And
during that recession, gold did
struggle, but it came out of it a lot.
It came out of it fairly quickly. And it
also recovered much faster than the
stock market is the point.
So stocks are still doing well and I
don't think stocks are going to really
start to get another drop until August
or September. And I've said that very
clearly that we should have a shallow
correction in June by stocks and then a
rally back up in July and then probably
a larger drop in the August September
time frame. Now if you look at where the
the bull mark for gold is right now,
it's currently at around 3,800 like
38.24 to 3841. We haven't even tagged
the bullmark swap band for gold since
2023. It's been a long time, you know,
and and I don't know how much longer
this is going to play out, but my guess
is that we'll find a low within the next
few months and then we'll see it bounce
off of that. Now, if I'm wrong and the
bull market is over and there's not
another move after this, I would still
expect it to bounce off of the bull
market support band if not before it,
right? it would still likely bounce
making me think I'm right and then I
would be wrong. So that's kind of like
what I'm looking at here is like yeah
like I could be wrong but if I am I
still think you would have a several
month rally uh that would make me not
believe that I'm wrong. I think that
we're more so in one of these
corrections where you know it could be
like 2006
um where you know you're not really in a
recession. it it you you get a big drop.
It might not look that bad, but
everything looks not bad when you're not
living through it. But back then, gold
did drop about 26%. If you compare that
to what it's dropped right now, it's
about 28%. Right? Like it's not that
different. And back then, gold did not
actually tag the bull market support
band, right? In 2008, it did.
My thinking is this is a lot of these
gold bull markets can last you know 10
15 years or it depends on exactly when
you measure it from. Um you know if you
look at the one we started uh we started
one in 1999 and it went all the way
until 2011. So I guess about like 12
years or so. Um, but if you I guess the
way I'm thinking about this decade is
you have your initial move up sort of
going into the early part of the decade,
right? You get your first consolidation
around the the the the 2022 midterm
year. It was a little bit on either
side, but let's just say the core was
2022. The next one is 2026.
And then I think that leads to further
consolidation and then leads leads up to
the final move that kind of ends the
decade. And it might even go into the
early part of of 2030s.
Absolutely. You know, in in midterm
years, gold can struggle. And on
average, it does, but I do think it'll
come out stronger on the other side of
it. I'd be looking for a low for gold to
form sometime between like the July to
October time frame and and then from
there to to start to show strength once
again. That's my guess. That's my
thought process for how gold will play
out for the rest of the year. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe, give the video a thumbs up,
and again, I'd love to see you guys at
the conference. Check it out. The
investing through the cycles conference.
I'm sure we'll be talking about gold at
that conference a lot. It'll be quite
timely because by that point, there
would be a really good chance that the
low would be in for gold because it's
not until November. So, make sure you
guys check it out. Would love to see you
guys there. Thank you guys for tuning
in. Subscribe and I'll see you next
time. Bye.